So we have test how we can read from our API.
Now let's see how we can test storing a new comment through our API.
So first thing we would like to do is to test adding comments when not our authenticated and as the
name of the test suggests will be checking whether we should see an error whether you when user is not
authenticated and tries to add a new comment so we can also try to reuse this blog post factory again
and again and again.
But instead if you see our repeating pattern you can just copy that and move it to the base class.
This would be the simplest solution.
So let's either protect that function post
and just return it from this method.
So you can also safely use this user here because it is actually defined in this very same class.
So now let's also modify this quickly and call this post
also modified here.
This post and now we can do this simply inside our new method.
So just call this post to get our brand new blog post created
and now we call them.
We create a response variable and call this Jason the method for creating is as you might remember that
posts and the euro is api v1 post 1
or dissenters will be post free comments.
And then inside the final argument you have to specify the body.
So we did it you do it using a normal peach array which would be converted to J some.
Thanks to this Jason method of flat out though and you only have to specify are content so let it be.
Hello and now what we expect to get back from this response is our CERT status to be 401.
So let's verify that.
Well actually we got an error here and it's a mistake I've made and it is because actually this test
case class has a method post and it's used to make our request using the post HDP verb.
So let's rename it to block post so you will just know that whenever you see an error like that this
means that you actually have called one of your helper methods the same as another method that actually
existed in the base class.
So you just need to rename it.
So let's just do that.
Quickly so now it's a blog post everywhere.
Okay let's save changes and run this test again.
And the final thing from the error messages that you can see is that I actually have to order you statement
for up a blog post in the base class.
Now the final mistake is actually the URL is incorrect.
It should be posts not a post.
So let's rerun again and you can see that everything works now.
So instead of using the actual HBP status code that you will have to remember that 401.
Is when user is not right.
So he is not alt indicated to do something in the new version of La Evo which is five point eight point
twenty four.
So if yours is at least this you can use this helper method as it assert unauthorized.
So he doesn't accept any parameters you just call this method.
And this is doing exactly as to assert its status with their 401.
Past.
So this was the first part of testing the storing of a new comment when the user wasn't authenticated.
Now let's also test if everything works when the user is actually authenticated.
So test the comments when out then Kate it would look essentially the same so we can copy this test
over here but you might remember from our post as that to actually impersonate a user.
So.
So Lavell knows which user you would like to perform this request.
You can use acting as method so you will call this before the GSM so we can get this user.
So you just have to specify our user model which you'd like to use.
So we can just create one for this as anyone can post comments to blog posts.
But this time instead of just pretending that we are this user we also have to specify the guard as
you might remember from me explaining the differences between the Web and API guards.
By default the web guard is assumed by but being authenticated using session won't work for the API.
So let's check it out
and well of course this is green because we are checking for 401.
And we should check for 201 which means that the resource was created.
And if you run this well of course you got 401.
Because you are not authenticated.
So how to do that with API is is well it's very simple you just have to specify the guard name as the
second argument which is the API.
So now having a code like this when you rerun it well actually the blog post idea is incorrect.
It should be for.
So now when you rerun it you would see everything green which means that you succeed successfully out
antiquated as user that you have just created using the API guard and that you can post a comment and
that status is for 201 which means that the blog post was created.
Now one final thing you might be checking for when adding new resources for your API is checking whether
the data is actually valid.
So let's create a new test for that.
So public function test adding comment with invalid invalid data.
Now we can also reuse a big chunk of this code.
So we create a new blog post.
We are acting as a user.
So this means we will have a valid token.
Let's also modify the idea to be five and you might want to send it with empty data.
So let's remove this content part and just send an empty array so in this case you don't expect to 101
if you will run it.
You can see that.
Of course this would fail and the error code for sending invalid data is four hundred twenty two.
You can verify that in postman if you will prepare our request.
Mind that you need to add those two headers accept content type and then alteration you need to provide
a valid token so if you will send an empty body you can see that we have this error messages and the
error code returned.
BI lateral is four hundred twenty two unprocessed rebel entity.
Now let's go back and expect this code.
So we assert that status is 400 22
and now we can also call our Sir Jason because we actually expect the exact Jason to be returned in
this specific case.
And this Jason is exactly what you see here so we want this message to be returned so let's also just
convert it to P P from there.
Jason then we want errors so there will be errors which would be an array
it will contain content.
And the content would also be an array with this specific message.
So this is how the response should look like and now if you will rerun this test everything is green.
So we have checked for the proper error code because we have sent empty body.
And also we are verifying that the messages coming back from Lavell are also exactly the ones that we
expect.
So of course this is just a simple way to write those test.
I'm just showing you the concepts but of course when you are writing your applications you will have
probably everything checked.
So we will check for all the possible errors for all the possible situations.
So your test in your application should actually be longer.
They should test everything but here you just got the basics of how you can verify your of all API.
The most important things at least.